Now to start our work on this course project
and to finally start writing some React code
we need a React project.
And the easiest way of getting started with a React project
is to use a tool called Create React App.
You can simply Google for a Create React App
to find this GitHub repository
with more information about it.
You can also visit, create-React-app.dev
for the full documentation.
Now this is a tool which you can use
to create React projects.
Which are basically pre-configured folders
with some basic React code files and most importantly
a bunch of configuration files which help you build
that React App for production use
because it turns out that there will be
a couple of transformation and optimization steps
between developing any React App
and running a React App in production
but more on that later.
And in addition, this project which is created
with Create React App, will give you
a nice development environment
with a development web server which allows you to preview
the application locally on your machine.
And it will allow you to preview this application
in a way where the browser will automatically update
the page whenever you make changes in your code and so on.
That's why we use a tool like Create React App.
It simply simplifies our development process.
It adds a couple of key transformation steps which we need
and it will later also help us optimize our React code
before we push it to a production server.
Now getting started with Create React App is simple.
In the end you find all important steps here.
However, to execute these steps
you first of all need to visit nodejs.org.
Node js is a technology which is not directly
related to React.
It isn't the end a runtime for JavaScript
which would allow you to run JavaScript code
outside of the browser.
And therefore of course, it's not something we need at all
for React.
Because React code is JavaScript code
that runs in the browser.
We will need node js however,
for this Create React App tool.
To run this command here we'll need node js installed
on our system, otherwise this will fail.
And behind the scenes the project
which is generated by a Create React App
will use node js for this development preview server
and for this behind the scenes transformation
and optimization steps which we also need
to build production ready applications.
Therefore you should visit nodejs.org
and simply download that latest version here
whichever version that is when you were visiting this page
the exact version doesn't matter.
Simply download this version here
save it somewhere on your system
and walk through the installer this gives you.
I'm on macOS here but you'll get a similar installer
on windows and you should simply walk through the installer
except all these default settings here
and in the end simply finished as node js installation.
Again, it works in the same way on macOS and Linux
and windows.
Once you've got node js installed, you are ready to execute
these commands to create a new React application
and therefor a new folder, to then navigate into that folder
and to then run a special script, which exists inside
of that project folder to bring up a development server
this preview server I was talking about.
But we are going to do that together.
So simply copy this command and then open
your default terminal or command prompt on windows
and then important, navigate inside of this terminal
into a folder where you want to create your React project.
You can navigate around with this cd command
which stands for change directory
and you then should ultimately go into a path
where you do want to create this new project.
For me I'll just navigate into my desktop folder here
and then simply copy in this NPX command.
However, I'll change the name of the to be created project
to React complete guide, since that is what this course is.
Simply hit entered there after
and this will now create this new React project
in the destination where you execute this command.
It will create a folder with that name you picked here
in my case, react complete guide.
And inside of that folder, it'll set up all the key files
you need to write React code
and build your React application.
Now, as you can see, this might take
a couple of minutes here to finish
and therefore I will be back once it is finished.
If you are facing errors here, definitely also
check the Q and A section, but most importantly make sure
that you don't have a proxy firewall or VPN client
that might be blocking outgoing connections
or might be interfering here.
The same goes for antivirus software.
Now, once this finished, you should see something like this
and you can now cd introduce created folder
simply by running cd and then the folder name.
And then in there run NPM start.
And this will now start this development server
which hosts a preview of this React application.
And it will automatically open up this application
on localhost:3000.
If it doesn't open this page automatically
you can manually visit localhost:3000 in your browser.
Now there, you should see something like this
the exact look and what you see in detail here might change
over time, but you should see some starting page
some dummy React application, which has set up for you.
Now, of course, we're ready to edit this code.
And for this, I already recommended visual studio code
as a code editor in the first code section.
(indistinct) I also explain my visual studio code set up
and how you can make sure that it looks and works for you
as it does for me.
So on code dot visual studio.com
you can download and installed it for all operating systems.
But again, make sure you have a look
at this first core section where I walked
through that in detail.
Therefore, once you did all of that
simply open visual studio code and then opened
this created project folder with visual studio code.
simply with file, open and then pick that folder
which was created, which holds your React project.
And you should see something like this there.
You might not see all these sub folders and files
as this can also change over time
but you should definitely see a source, a SRC folder
and the package.json file.
The package.json file in the end holds all the dependencies
of this project, for example, React, but also a couple
of development dependencies, which are involved
with these transformation and optimization steps
I was talking about.
The SRC folder holds the actual source code
you will be working on.
And you will see more files in there than I have it here
because I already cleaned up that folder.
And speaking of that, I wanted to show you
how you can create new React projects
because ultimately that is what you need once you're done
with that course, but to make sure that we're all starting
on the same page and we're all working
on the same kind of project setup
attached you find this cleaned up starting project
which I created for you.
Simply download it unzip it and then open that
with visual studio code.
That's the project we should continue on
because here we'll all have the exact same starting state
and you will learn the latest version
of React with that as well.
So make sure you download unzip and open
that attached starting project, which is this cleaned up
project, originally created with Create React App.
Once you did that
make sure you cancel that running development server
which we started a couple of seconds ago
by going to the terminal where this server is running
and hit control C in there.
Which will cancel it and now, by the way,
if you reload localhost:3000, you'll no longer see
the website therefore.
But we'll restart it in a second.
But now based on this adjusted starting project
I provided to you.
Now here's a nice trick which I recommend that you use.
We again, need to start this development server
to have that automatically updated preview
of the application we're building.
Now the best way of starting that server again
is to go into visual studio code
into that project which you opened up.
And then here in the menu, go to terminal, new terminal
and open a new terminal here
which is now your default system terminal or command prompt
just integrated into visual studio code.
And in there you need to run two commands.
First of all run NPM install, this will look into
the package.json file and download and install
all the required packages and dependencies
into this project folder, simply entered this and hit enter.
We didn't have to do this earlier
because when we ran NPX Create React App
this was already included in the overall setup process.
Now that I shared my starting project with you
you need to run this once to download
and install all the dependencies.
They are not part of the shared zip file
since that would unnecessarily bloat that zip file.
Indeed all course attachments which you find
will be missing these locally downloaded
and installed dependencies
since that would just increase the zip file size
and in the end, you just need to run NPM install
in the downloaded and extracted zip files to recreate
and re-download all the dependencies.
You will now have a node modules folder here
which holds all these dependencies.
That's by the way a folder you should never edit or work in
because that's really just all these third party packages
downloaded onto your local system.
Now, once that's done, you can run NPM start again
and this will again, bring up this development server.
Use it all to keep that development server running as long
as you're working on the code, because if you shut it down
you can't preview your application anymore
though you can always restart it by running NPM start again.
And as long as this process is running here
it will automatically watch your code files.
And whenever you change something in code
it will automatically update the loaded page in the browser.
So keep this process up and running here.
Don't close this terminal.
Don't quit it with control C
unless you're done for the day.
Now on localhost:3000, you should see something like this.
Simply some 'let's get started' text
which isn't particularly easy to read
but that's really just a dummy starting state
on which we're going to build up on.
And that is the starting project we're now
going to work with.
That's now our starting state, where we can now finally dive
into the React source code and start learning React.